README.md, before:

[![build-test-release](https://github.com/cakarci/pull-request-workflow/actions/workflows/build-test-release.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/cakarci/pull-request-workflow/actions/workflows/build-test-release.yml) [![check-dist](https://github.com/cakarci/pull-request-workflow/actions/workflows/check-dist.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/cakarci/pull-request-workflow/actions/workflows/check-dist.yml) [![pull-request-workflow](https://github.com/cakarci/pull-request-workflow/actions/workflows/pull-request-workflow.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/cakarci/pull-request-workflow/actions/workflows/pull-request-workflow.yml)

# Pull request workflow with 4 eyes principle action

A GitHub action that creates a workflow with **_four eyes principle_**

## In this workflow,

- **_PR Author_** creates a pull request
- The pull request is automatically assigned to 2 code reviewers from the `githubUserNames` list provided
- The **_first code reviewer_**, reviews the code and provide feedback
- After the feedback provided by the **_first code reviewer_**, a slack notification is sent to the **_second code reviewer_**
  - **_Second code reviewer_** ensures all the review comments from the **_first code reviewer_** have been addressed properly
  - If required, adds review comments as well
- After the **_second code reviewer_**'s approval, a Slack notification is sent to the **_PR Author_**
- If there is no change requested then the PR is ready to be merged :rocket:
- It keeps your Slack channel as clean as possible as notifications related to a specific PR starts a thread and all the related activities of the pull request are sent as a thread reply [Check it here](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/4185569/214591718-d3e19dbe-2603-4451-8fea-30576ec50993.png)

![Screenshot 2023-02-05 at 20 15 29](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/4185569/216840005-7a055f42-9afa-44f8-924f-b1a87c76b469.png)

## Inputs

### `github-token`

**Required** The GitHub Token that has access to the workflow scope .

### `slack-token`

**Required** The Slack Bot User OAuth Token starts with `xoxb-` which will be required to send messages to a Slack channel.

### `slack-channel-id`

**Required** The Slack channel for notifications to be sent.

## Example usage

```yaml
- name: Checkout
  uses: actions/checkout@v3
- name: Run pull request workflow
  uses: cakarci/pull-request-workflow@v1
  with:
    github-token: ${{ secrets.GH_TOKEN }}
    slack-token: ${{ secrets.SLACK_BOT_TOKEN }}
    slack-channel-id: '{Your public slack channel id}'
```

## How to use it step by step

- ### Create `pull-request-workflow.yml` file with the following content under `./github/workflows`

  - ```yaml
    name: 'pull-request-workflow'

    on:
      pull_request:
        types:
          [
            assigned,
            unassigned,
            labeled,
            unlabeled,
            opened,
            edited,
            closed,
            reopened,
            synchronize,
            converted_to_draft,
            ready_for_review,
            locked,
            unlocked,
            review_requested,
            review_request_removed,
            auto_merge_enabled,
            auto_merge_disabled
          ]
      pull_request_review:
        types: [submitted, edited, dismissed]
      pull_request_review_comment:
        types: [created, edited, deleted]
      issue_comment:
        types: [created, edited, deleted]

    jobs:
      pull_request_workflow:
        runs-on: ubuntu-latest
        name: A job that notifies slack on PR events
        steps:
          - name: Checkout
            uses: actions/checkout@v3
          - name: Run pull request workflow
            uses: cakarci/pull-request-workflow@v1
            with:
              github-token: ${{ secrets.GH_TOKEN }}
              slack-token: ${{ secrets.SLACK_BOT_TOKEN }}
              slack-channel-id: '{Your public slack channel id}'
    ```

- ### Create `pull-request-workflow.json` file with the following content under `./github` folder

  - ```json
    {
      "teamName": "Consumer Experience",
      "githubUserNames": ["pcakarci", "scakarci", "cakarci"],
      "githubSlackUserMapper": {
        "pcakarci": "U04L1AQ8H8U",
        "scakarci": "U04LNHEVA48",
        "cakarci": "U035MNNF8LW"
      }
    }
    ```

  - `githubSlackUserMapper` object should include `githubUserName` as a `key` and `Slack Member ID` as a `value` [How to get Slack Member ID](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/4185569/216829550-be52aa6e-4d01-4e98-b5f5-5f27d63cb431.png)
  - All the users defined in the `githubUserNames` list should have read/write access to the repository

- ### Create a Slack app with both user
  - Create a **Public Slack channel** and get the `Channel ID: C04LNJJUCKS` from the details of the channel
  - Create a **Slack App** and **Bot User** for that app by following these [steps](https://slack.com/help/articles/115005265703-Create-a-bot-for-your-workspace#add-a-bot-user)
  - **[IMPORTANT]** Add the bot token scopes like in this [image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/4185569/214593602-0a238d97-a5bf-4fb7-9d59-8e1230f15a6c.png)
  - **[IMPORTANT]** Add your **Bot User** into the **Public Slack channel** you created
- ### Add your **SECRETS** to your repo ([Check how to create a repository secret](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/security-guides/encrypted-secrets#creating-encrypted-secrets-for-a-repository))
  - **_SLACK_BOT_TOKEN_**
    - Copy the `Bot User OAuth Token` and add it to your repository secret as `SLACK_BOT_TOKEN`
  - **_GH_TOKEN_**
    - Create a [Personal Access Token](https://docs.github.com/en/enterprise-server@3.4/authentication/keeping-your-account-and-data-secure/creating-a-personal-access-token#creating-a-personal-access-token)
    - Add the GitHub personal access token scopes like in this [image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/4185569/214594384-23868a6b-e6d1-4119-b9bd-a2d5c20e3bfd.png)
    - Add it to your repository secret as `GH_TOKEN`
- To test the workflow run, create a PR in your repository and check if the notifications are sent to your public Slack channel :boom:

Developed with ❤️ by [Salih Cakarci](https://github.com/cakarci)

Commit message:

feat: review reminder (#49)
* feat: add list-pull-requests github api

* refactor: move request-reviewers out of pull-request-review-state-users

* refactor: move get-pull-request-slack-thread to utils

* feat: add pull-request-reminder

* chore: update dist folder

* feat: add schedule run

* chore: update dist folder

README.md, after:

[![build-test-release](https://github.com/cakarci/pull-request-workflow/actions/workflows/build-test-release.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/cakarci/pull-request-workflow/actions/workflows/build-test-release.yml) [![check-dist](https://github.com/cakarci/pull-request-workflow/actions/workflows/check-dist.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/cakarci/pull-request-workflow/actions/workflows/check-dist.yml) [![pull-request-workflow](https://github.com/cakarci/pull-request-workflow/actions/workflows/pull-request-workflow.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/cakarci/pull-request-workflow/actions/workflows/pull-request-workflow.yml)

# Pull request workflow with 4 eyes principle action

A GitHub action that creates a workflow with **_four eyes principle_**

## In this workflow,

- **_PR Author_** creates a pull request
- The pull request is automatically assigned to 2 code reviewers from the `githubUserNames` list provided
- The **_first code reviewer_**, reviews the code and provide feedback
- After the feedback provided by the **_first code reviewer_**, a slack notification is sent to the **_second code reviewer_**
  - **_Second code reviewer_** ensures all the review comments from the **_first code reviewer_** have been addressed properly
  - If required, adds review comments as well
- After the **_second code reviewer_**'s approval, a Slack notification is sent to the **_PR Author_**
- If there is no change requested then the PR is ready to be merged :rocket:
- It keeps your Slack channel as clean as possible as notifications related to a specific PR starts a thread and all the related activities of the pull request are sent as a thread reply [Check it here](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/4185569/214591718-d3e19dbe-2603-4451-8fea-30576ec50993.png)

![Screenshot 2023-02-05 at 20 15 29](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/4185569/216840005-7a055f42-9afa-44f8-924f-b1a87c76b469.png)

## Inputs

### `github-token`

**Required** The GitHub Token that has access to the workflow scope .

### `slack-token`

**Required** The Slack Bot User OAuth Token starts with `xoxb-` which will be required to send messages to a Slack channel.

### `slack-channel-id`

**Required** The Slack channel for notifications to be sent.

## Example usage

```yaml
- name: Checkout
  uses: actions/checkout@v3
- name: Run pull request workflow
  uses: cakarci/pull-request-workflow@v1
  with:
    github-token: ${{ secrets.GH_TOKEN }}
    slack-token: ${{ secrets.SLACK_BOT_TOKEN }}
    slack-channel-id: '{Your public slack channel id}'
```

## How to use it step by step

- ### Create `pull-request-workflow.yml` file with the following content under `./github/workflows`

  - ```yaml
    name: 'pull-request-workflow'

    on:
      pull_request:
        types:
          [
            assigned,
            unassigned,
            labeled,
            unlabeled,
            opened,
            edited,
            closed,
            reopened,
            synchronize,
            converted_to_draft,
            ready_for_review,
            locked,
            unlocked,
            review_requested,
            review_request_removed,
            auto_merge_enabled,
            auto_merge_disabled
          ]
      pull_request_review:
        types: [submitted, edited, dismissed]
      pull_request_review_comment:
        types: [created, edited, deleted]
      issue_comment:
        types: [created, edited, deleted]
      schedule:
        - cron: '5 * * * *'

    jobs:
      pull_request_workflow:
        runs-on: ubuntu-latest
        name: A job that notifies slack on PR events
        steps:
          - name: Checkout
            uses: actions/checkout@v3
          - name: Run pull request workflow
            uses: cakarci/pull-request-workflow@v1
            with:
              github-token: ${{ secrets.GH_TOKEN }}
              slack-token: ${{ secrets.SLACK_BOT_TOKEN }}
              slack-channel-id: '{Your public slack channel id}'
    ```

- ### Create `pull-request-workflow.json` file with the following content under `./github` folder

  - ```json
    {
      "teamName": "Consumer Experience",
      "githubUserNames": ["pcakarci", "scakarci", "cakarci"],
      "githubSlackUserMapper": {
        "pcakarci": "U04L1AQ8H8U",
        "scakarci": "U04LNHEVA48",
        "cakarci": "U035MNNF8LW"
      },
      "remindAfter": 0.05
    }
    ```

  - `githubSlackUserMapper` **Required**
    - object should include `githubUserName` as a `key` and `Slack Member ID` as a `value` [How to get Slack Member ID](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/4185569/216829550-be52aa6e-4d01-4e98-b5f5-5f27d63cb431.png)
  - `githubUserNames` **Required**
    - All the users defined in the `githubUserNames` list should have read/write access to the repository
  - `remindAfter` **Optional**
    - If set then pull request collaborators (PR Author, Reviewers) will be reminded after `x` hours if the PR is waiting on them.

- ### Create a Slack app with both user
  - Create a **Public Slack channel** and get the `Channel ID: C04LNJJUCKS` from the details of the channel
  - Create a **Slack App** and **Bot User** for that app by following these [steps](https://slack.com/help/articles/115005265703-Create-a-bot-for-your-workspace#add-a-bot-user)
  - **[IMPORTANT]** Add the bot token scopes like in this [image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/4185569/214593602-0a238d97-a5bf-4fb7-9d59-8e1230f15a6c.png)
  - **[IMPORTANT]** Add your **Bot User** into the **Public Slack channel** you created
- ### Add your **SECRETS** to your repo ([Check how to create a repository secret](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/security-guides/encrypted-secrets#creating-encrypted-secrets-for-a-repository))
  - **_SLACK_BOT_TOKEN_**
    - Copy the `Bot User OAuth Token` and add it to your repository secret as `SLACK_BOT_TOKEN`
  - **_GH_TOKEN_**
    - Create a [Personal Access Token](https://docs.github.com/en/enterprise-server@3.4/authentication/keeping-your-account-and-data-secure/creating-a-personal-access-token#creating-a-personal-access-token)
    - Add the GitHub personal access token scopes like in this [image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/4185569/214594384-23868a6b-e6d1-4119-b9bd-a2d5c20e3bfd.png)
    - Add it to your repository secret as `GH_TOKEN`
- To test the workflow run, create a PR in your repository and check if the notifications are sent to your public Slack channel :boom:

Developed with ❤️ by [Salih Cakarci](https://github.com/cakarci)
